In the last lecture, we set up a dummy
MySQL server on our local machine
so that we actually have a server to connect to and if you already have a running server, definitely use that.
Now in Power BI, we want to connect to that, we want to use that SQL server as a data source. For that
we can click on get data
and now you could think that we can click on SQL server,
let's do that. In the newly opened window,
you can choose your address, so that would be a localhost, then 3306 was the port number,
remember that from the set up process, of course choose your address and then the database you want to
connect to,
so that would be pbi-test.
Now you have the choice between two options, import or direct query,
what's the difference?
Import basically takes a snapshot of your data and copies it into your Power BI project file here.
So the data is taken from the database,
a SQL query is executed but the returning data is then taken and stored in your Power BI project. Direct
query only stores the query command and whenever it needs to update a chart or anything else which requires
the up-to-date data,
it will rerun that query. So that is the option you should choose if you need live updating, if you want
to update your visuals, your analysis on everything you change, so to be always on the most latest version
of your data so to say.
And that might sound like the always to choose option but actually for a lot of analysis, you don't need
the latest data all the time,
taking a snapshot which you then might update from time to time might be all you need.
So typically, you choose import but you have the option of using direct query
if you need that live data. Under advanced options,
you can specify a timeout period and you can run your own SQL command if you have some specific command
you want to execute.
Now if we hit OK with import selected, you're queried or you're prompted to enter your credentials, so
let's choose database,
we have a root user by default,
so let's create or use the root user and use the password we set up.
If you now hit connect, you get an error that you're not able to connect.
The reason for this is that SQL server might sound like you can connect to MySQL database but
actually, a MySQL database is kind of a special case and we will see that we have a separate data source
for that.
If you have some other database driver or database software, running your own SQL server somewhere
in the web or on your machine,
these steps, these steps we walked through, this data source,
SQL server might be the appropriate one. If you use a MySQL database,
we have to follow a different approach. So let's hit cancel, for demo purposes
I go to file options and data source settings and I'll remove the data source settings here,
this is basically where the credentials I entered were stored and now I can click on get data more
and here you see MySQL database.
If you now choose this, you see we can't connect to it because we need to install additional components.
Let's click on that learn more link then
and this actually redirects us to the MySQL webpage because we need to install a connector. Connector
is a software running on your machine which allows Power BI to use it to connect to the MySQL database.
So Power BI doesn't have the logic to connect to it on its own,
instead you have to use that connector, you have to install it so that Power BI can use it.
That is
when a SQL server import wasn't working,
we need that connector.
So on that page, we can scroll down and just start to download and this will now download the connector
and once this is finished, we can walk through the installer to install it on our machine which should then enable
Power BI to connect to that MySQL server, so I'll be back once this is finished.
So I started the installer, let's go through it
and here you can choose custom but all the settings should be fine,
click next, click install and this will now install this connector on your machine.
Now you'll need to restart Power BI,
so I'm restarting it right now and once it did restart, you can go to get data
again, more, go to MySQL database, click connect and now you should be able to proceed
and here again, we enter our server address which is on our localhost, on our local machine and port
and
then the database. The database still is pbi-test.
We can also specify advanced options here,
a timeout in a SQL statement
but one thing we can't do is choosing direct query. For MySQL, it's always going to be the import, the
snapshot,
you can't choose direct query, it's just not possible because the connector is being used. If you need to do that, you'll
need to use a different SQL server,
you can't use MySQL with Power BI.
So that's just not an option
but keep in mind, often times, maybe most of the times, a snapshot is all you need and the direct query
thing might sound very awesome but we actually don't need to update your data on every tiny change you
make.
So let's go with these settings,
click OK
and again we reached a page where we have to enter our credentials.
So let's click database
and again, let's enter our username which is root by default and then our password and click connect.
Now we can hit OK here on this encryption warning and you will be presented with this navigator.
Here you see all your tables in the database you connected to,
if you check this, you'll see the data and the team and you can now load it or edited it. If I click edit,
you'll see it detected the types correctly so we can click close and apply
and now it's importing the data as a snapshot from our database.
Therefore if I add my column chart here and I drag volume in here and then region as an axis, you see my volume
region data from the database.
And this is how you can use MySQL as a source for Power BI
and as you saw, you confused SQL server too.